---
layout: post
title: Should I use Segue to navigate controllers?
subtitle: Is segue good for you and your projects?
date: 2020-03-31
background: https://i.stack.imgur.com/v2IKA.png
---

Many tutorials, iOS books for beginners teach us use Segue. That's good start. But is it good for you and your projects? From my experience, it's totally not good. Here the reasons. 
# 1. It's slow
Storyboard is slow, especially you add many controllers in a Storyboard, that's a disaster. I wrote something about Storyboard [here](https://www.codementor.io/@nguyentruongky/auto-layout-with-storyboard-and-programmatically-r1zuvtzbk).
# 2. It's messy 
When you have 4 or 5 controllers, yes, not too bad. When you have 10 controllers, and screen A can show screen B, C, D, screen B can show D and E, screen E can show A and C. It's a big pain in the ass. 

# 3. You can't reuse your code
You have to open the storyboards, drag and drop segues many times. When you setup other segues, you have to set `modalPresentationStyle` again.

In other way, you can easily copy and paste the code. 

```
let vc = DailyBonusController()
vc.modalPresentationStyle = .fullScreen
present(vc, animated: true)
```
Simple? You can change to any controllers you want, instead of drag and drop to a controller, which located 3 or 4 screens from your current controller. 


# 4. Typo mistakes 
Segue identifier is a String, and you can easily have typo mistakes there. If your screens have many destinations, you have to if ... else to select what destination to process correct flow. 

**Notes:**
If you have to use Segue, try to name identifier like "Show" + your_controller_name. By this way, you don't have to remember too many things anymore and prevent typo mistakes. 

# 5. Sending data
When you use Segue, you send data to next screen in `prepareForSegue`. 
Think this case, you have a UITableView or UICollectionView, selecting row/item shows detail screen. Here is how it works. 

**Use segue**: 
- Save the selected IndexPath to a local variable. 
- Go to `prepareForSegue` and go to correct if case. 
- Unwrap selected indexpath. 
- Send data to your destination. 

**Don't use segue** 
In `didSelectRow` or somewhere you want to show. 
- Init the destination
- Send data
- Navigate.

And you can reuse this way in other places, just copy. 

# Conclusion 
Just some reasons you shouldn't use segue. Hope this can help you find a better way in your code. Please feel free to share your idea [here](https://github.com/nguyentruongky/nguyentruongky.github.io/issues/3).

> Enjoy coding. 

Cover image is from: [stackoverflow.com](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/16085735/using-storyboards-to-navigate-a-complex-set-of-views-unwind-segue-is-not-enough).

